‎This was the first school
‎in the Romany language in Bulgaria.
‎In recent years,
‎we have seen remarkable growth
‎in the Romany field.
‎There are many Roma people
living all over Bulgaria,
‎generally in their own neighborhoods.
‎The Roma came to Europe from India
with their own languages and culture.
‎Roma people are happy
to talk to Jehovah’s Witnesses,
‎sensing no discrimination or prejudice.
‎As a result,
‎Romany congregations
and groups have been formed.
‎At the first Memorial
held in the Romany language,
‎a congregation with 26 publishers
‎had 703 in attendance.
‎In this rapidly growing field,
‎half of the publishers serve as pioneers.
‎Seeing the progress in this field,
‎the branch wanted the pioneers
to be trained in their mother tongue
‎so that they could apply the information
according to the needs of the territory.
‎This is a wonderful gift from Jehovah,
‎because when we receive it
in our own language,
‎it is embedded directly into our hearts.
‎I feel very happy that the school
‎is in the Romany language
‎because I can see not only Jehovah’s love
‎but also how he spoils us.
‎This has been a wonderful achievement,
‎considering that we didn’t have any material
‎translated for the school
in the Romany language.
‎This meant
that the instructors and the students
‎prepared in a different language,
‎but everything was presented in Romany.
‎I have to get up at 4:30 a.m.
‎to go to and finish my secular work
‎before the school,
which starts at 8:30 a.m.
‎It is a little difficult for me,
‎but hearing about Jehovah
and understanding more about him
‎gives me renewed energy.
‎I heard an example about Jesus
‎and how he showed empathy
for the young children who went to see him,
‎but his apostles tried to stop them.
‎However, Jesus put himself
in the place of those children.
‎This really helps me
to see the people in our territory
‎and to put myself in their place,
‎because I too once lived like them
and know how they feel.
‎When we speak about spiritual things
‎—things about God—
‎we want to speak in our mother tongue
‎because it touches our heart.
‎I personally saw
how the hearts of the pioneers
‎were deeply touched
by having the school in their language.
‎As a Roma,
‎I often feel rejected by others,
‎but at the school,
‎it was completely the opposite.
‎I was really happy that the school
‎was held in our Roma neighborhood
‎and that I could speak in my language.
‎Who would have imagined ten years ago,
‎when the preaching work
‎started in the Roma neighborhood,
‎that we would have a pioneer school?
‎Interestingly,
‎some of those who started
to study the Bible back then
‎attended the school
together with their Bible teachers.
‎If someone had said that this would happen,
‎we would have thought,
‘He has a vivid imagination.’
‎Jehovah made this possible!